Vehicle one (V1 - case vehicle), a 1998 Ford Taurus, 4-door sedan was traveling west in the westbound lane of a two-lane, two-way rural roadway. Vehicle two (V2), a 2000 Chevrolet Cavalier, 4-door sedan was traveling east in the eastbound lane of the same roadway. Vehicle three (V3), a 2005 Chevrolet Trailblazer, 4-door utility vehicle was also traveling west in the westbound lane but in front of V1. It was daylight and snowing and the bituminous road surface was wet . For an unknown reason, the driver of V2 drove left of center and into the westbound lane. The front of V2 struck the left side of V3. This impact caused V3 to rotate counterclockwise, cross the eastbound lanes and come to rest off the south shoulder facing south-southeast. This impact caused V2 to rotate counterclockwise and further enter the westbound lane, where it was struck in the right side by the front of V1. This impact caused V2 to continue its counterclockwise rotation and come to rest in the road facing west. V1 continued forward and to the right following the impact with V2 and came to rest on the north shoulder facing west. All three vehicles were towed due to disabling vehicle damage.

The 59-year-old female driver of V2 sustained police-reported "A" injuries (incapacitating) and was transported via ground ambulance to a regional level-one trauma center. The 54-year-old male driver of V3 sustained no injuries and was not transported nor treated for injuries.


The 40-year-old female driver of V1 (case occupant) was using the available three-point seat belt and the steering-wheel air bag deployed. She was transported via helicopter to a regional level-one trauma center and treated for 15 days. She died in a rehabilitation facility two days later due to complications from her injuries. The 3-year-old male left-rear passenger of V1 (non-case occupant) was using a unknown type child seat with the three-point seat belt. He was also transported to a regional level-one trauma center where he was treated and released (not injured).